## CREATION

> Did the gods forsake us? Or did we abandon them, long before that, by forgetting their teachings and sacrifices?
>
> Alluin Farkana

It is said that long before anything else there was only Usle'A or Arche as it is known in the Prevalent Tongue. According to the legends Arche was both a being and a place, had unlimited power and size. Arche is what was and will ever be. Many think of Arche as a God or Deity, quite possibly the eldest and most powerful but this reasoning lacks proof as there has been no documented encounter with Arche by any civilization or creature which leads most scholars to place Arche in a category of its own. Others think that Arche is in essence the driving power behind the life force that flows through every being, creature, animal and plant as everything is said to have been created and exist within Arche itself.

For how long Arche existed alone it's anyone's guess. It could be thousands of eons or even more. But at some point two beings of unfathomable power with no specific shape and state were formed, either created by Arche or simply came to existence. The names given to them by the First Born in the Elder Tongue were Nase, meaning Father and Isa which means Mother. Whether they were actually female or male is unspecified and probably not of much importance to them. It is speculated that after a while Mother and Father created the Fahindye, or the Antecedent also known as First Born. They were beings of great potential and even greater power. They were the ones that brought to life the first creatures and placed them in worlds of their own creation. They consequently created more worlds as well as diverse creatures giving them the ability to communicate, the Elder Tongue or Dae'Ara'Thi. They created animals and plants as well as the first Nilsir or Concepts in the Prevalent Tongue, upon which the first civilizations where based. Those first Concepts weren't beings and had no specific form or shape but were driven by rules nonetheless and were deeply embedded in the minds of all living things. Most of their names have been lost in time but the most powerful among them are still known:

* Love, which was meant to allow the mortals to create meaningful relationships and sequentially grow in numbers 
* Law, which was meant to provide discipline for the mortals
* Light, which serves as the ingrediend for all life and a guiding beacon for those lost
* Dream, which allowed mortals to be everything they wanted to be for a while
* Night or Darkness, which provided cover for those with obscure or even nefarious purposes
* Naw'Eal, Life, the start of every journey for all mortals 
* Lae'Wan, Death, because everything must come to an end in order for the circle of life to start anew
* Na'dhel also known as Fate, which allowed the mortals to find their destiny
* E'Awale'As also known as Order, meant to provide a basic set of rules which would act as guidance for mortals
* Hluar also known as Chaos, meant to provide the mortals freedom to follow their instincts

The Antecedent also are said to have created the Titans, beings of immense size and power which is said they helped them create the lands and all the creatures and later put in charge of guarding them. Other mythical creatures is said to have been created but their names and roles are lost throughout the time.

Most of the Antecedent got along pretty well with the mortals. Some of them though, demanded absolute obedience and constant worship in return for the growth and protection they provided. Others were in the habit of transforming themselves as mortals in order to partake in carnal or otherwise pleasures. From these happenstances the Ellym or the Elder Gods were born which mortals viewed as their guardians and heroes. Basically the Ellym were the first Gods or Deities that were worshiped by mortals without expected to do so or any threaten of destruction but simply out of love and affection. For that the Antecedent even if the Ellym were their children, started being jealous.

During this time it's unclear what was the status of Mother and Father. Some think that they had left seeking to find where the world ends while others simply think that they were too powerful to even be bothered by such trivial matters. There is also the notion that they simply liked to watch as their progeny play with each other basking in the afterglow of their creation.

Soon enough due to the envy that the Fahindye had for the Ellym as well as the treatment of the mortals in the hands of some of the Fahindye. The war was brutal and on one side stood the majority of the Fahindye and the Titans while on the other side were the Ellym, the mortals and the few Antecedent that chose to fight with them. Fighting went on for ages and the mortals had to witness their worlds be destroyed one by one. It is said that at this point the Father intervened to put an end to the war. His choice of intervention unfortunately for everyone involved was to destroy them. The war took a turn for the worse as the former foes now chose to unite against this new threat but to no avail. Only two of the Fahindye, one of the Titans and ten of the Ellym remained according to the few surviving legends. Mother, who so far remained on the sidelines, hid the survivors by swallowing them whole. Father became furious when he found out and attacked her with blind rage wounding her. Distressed by what he had done asked for her forgiveness but their offspring, now freed from her body struck him down. It is said they died together and Arche allowed them to disperse throughout the world as the magical energy that still flows through every creature today, Sihir or much more simply the Flow.

Instead of uniting to create the world again the survivors is said that again turned against each other. Araz'Uhs and Kyll'Uhs the remaining Fahindye, also a couple, joined forces with the remaining Titan, Fhyl'Kas and with one of the Ellym, Shel'Yn. The Ellym outnumbered them though and suffering just one loss managed to win and capture them. As punishment they forced Araz'Uhs and Shyl'Uhs to shape themselves into spheres and placed them amidst the world, serving for all eternity as the two morning suns, unable to meet ever again. Shel'Yn suffered the same fate but she was turned into the night moon condemned to wander forever alone. As for Fhyl'Kas supposedly he was imprisoned somewhere in the depths of the world.

Then with the help of the Nilsir the Ellym begun to create the world anew. But the Nilsir forced the Ellym to accept rules so that another war could be prevented:

* Each Ellym would create one and only one world which would remain in the vicinity of Araz'Uhs Kylll'Uhs and Shel'Yn, the two suns and moon.
* No Ellym would have the right to interfere with another's world or creations unless asked or given permission to.
* No Ellym would create beings capable of bringing other creatures into existence or creating life or give more power than necessary to their creations.

With those rules in place, Order, Chaos and Fate were placed in charge of advocating and guiding all mortals. Order was responsible for keeping everything in check allowing everyone equal chances while maintaining a certain form. Chaos was responsible for giving the mortals the freedom of choice to the extent that it didn't cause any conflicts with the order of things. And finally Fate was responsible with keeping the balance between Order and Fate as well as acting as a guiding hand for all mortals. Other Nilsir were given various tasks and a structured system came into life for the Ellym to create worlds into.

Each Ellym created a world which was named after them:

* Ze'Auh'Ellym: Ze'Auh created a magnificent world filled with light and love. The only creatures inhabiting this world were the Ashionis, named after his wife, Ashion. The Ashionis or Nef'Ellym as they came to be known in the Elder Tongue, were beings of spectacular beauty, female in appearance with blond hair and splendid white wings. They were constantly meddling in the affairs of mortals in Ashion'Ellym usually in a beneficial way. They lived high up in the air as their world consisted of islands hovering over an endless ocean.
* Sue'Anar'Ellym: Sue'Anar created a world filled with creatures devoid of any sense of order ruled instead by their desires, the Aljan or more commonly known as Daimons. Sue'Anar'Ellym was a world with almost no water consisting of vast areas filled with stones, mountains and desolation. The Aljan are ruled by Laren, who is the unquestionable leader and the strongest among them. When a Laren perishes he or she could be only succeeded by the winner of a tournament, called Laren Vitl. Alternatively anyone could challenge the current Laren to a duel to the death.
* Rus'Ellym: Ruse opted to not create any intelligent creatures, capable of creating civilizations and societies having see where this leads. He created a vast world with lakes, oceans and forests filled with all kinds of animals and plants allowing a natural circle of life amongst the animals and plants of the world.
* Ni'Ellym: Nie, Ze'Auh's twin sister, created a world equally beautiful to her brother's filling him with wondrous beings called Gealach or as they came to be known later, Djinn. Djinn were beings of pure energy and had many forms. They were also immortal, unable to die from natural causes and never age. It is considered that Djinn are the physical manifestations of Sihir, a thought yet to be proven.
* Djak'Ellym: Djaka created an empty world filled with ethereal constructions of a crude design. It was a vast area of nothingness without any water, mountains or any life whatsoever. Even the light was limited, giving the world a constant state of gloom. It is said that he was completely devoid of imagination and thus was unable to create anything of substance or beauty. Other Ellym feeling sorry for him allowed the spirits of creatures that perished on their worlds to enter his and stay there wandering forever giving the world a semblance of life.
* Laeth'Ellym: Laethe created a world where light was never allowed to shine. She created creatures with no face the Djakolehn or later known as Soulless. It is said she did so because she lacked the emotion of love to pour into her creations thus rendering them incomplete and unable to do anything other than wander aimlessly inside Laeth'Ellym with no purpose.
* Nymlaser'Ellym: Nymlaser, the strongest amongst the Ellym, created a single huge island filled with copies of everything that caught his eye from other worlds. There he placed himself on top of a large throne inside an enormous and luxurious palace surrounded by beautiful creatures to which he gave only one goal in life, to provide him with pleasure. Other Ellym scowled upon seeing this but he didn't break any rules so they were unable to interfere.
* Shkr'Ellym: Everything that remained of the Old Worlds, the ones created by the Antecedent was placed in a single world as a sign of respect by Shkr. Mostly it was structures and other things left behind and in that regard Shkr'Ellym remained empty of life giving it a sense of abandonment and loneliness. Few ever visited this world and even less few chose to stay for prolonged periods of time.
* Saray'Ellym: Saray created world of beauty and wealth but he allowed only Ellym and their direct offspring to visit. Soon it became a place of importance where all of the immortal creatures gathered to talk or even take prolonged breaks from dealing with mortals. Since no mortal has ever visited this realm, little more is known.
* Ashion'Ellym: Ashion first helped everyone else to create their world. Then using their ideas to an extent created her world which is now known as Aell. Having helped the other Ellym they were thankful to her and so each one of them gave a present to be placed in her world. Rus'Ellym gave her a pair of each animal and plant from his world. Nie poured magic in the world giving great power to its denizens. Djaka allowed the spirits of the deceased to wander into the dreams of the living giving them some contact with their loved ones. Sue'Anar gave the creatures of Aell physical beauty. Laethe gave her Djakolehn orders to guide the fallen spirits of Aellirians to and from Djak'Ellym while Nymlaser, against Ashion's wishes, taught the creatures how to profit from their work. Finally Ze'Auh allowed his Ashionis to create a new race, the Ash'Alo'As the ancestors of the Lightborn or Adlae who would act as guardians. With all these gifts Ashion created a vast world, bigger than any of the other worlds varying filled to the brim with nature and life.

### THE FIRST DOWNFALL OF THE GODS

> Your influence on the life of mortals must come to an end. And I would allow no harm to you which is why I must do this.
>
> Lyanthe D’Moor

For ages everything was peaceful. But peace usually never lasts and the Djakolehn found a way to create portals between the realms which led them to the world of Djak'Ellym. There upon interacting with the spirits they discovered an ability to absorb the essence of others which gave them an incredible feeling which unfortunately did not last. Distraught by the destruction this would bring upon her world, Djaka rushed to beg Laethe to order her creatures back in their world. Laethe decided it was their choice ultimately and reminded him she was not allowed to interfere. Djaka then turned to the other Ellym but her cries for help went unanswered until Ashion decided to help. She asked Shkr, who was the eldest and most powerful among them to talk some sense in Laethe. Shkr begrudgingly agreed and went to talk to Laethe who was not pleased by this turn of events. It is said that then she opened a portal between her world and Ashion'Ellym which allowed her creatures to pour through and attack everyone driven by their newfound thirst for essence.

Appalled by this Ashion sought out to get the help of her husband, Ze'Auh and his sister, Nie to wage war against Laethe and her creatures. Soon enough Laethe asked other Ellym for help and another war begun. On one side stood Ashion, Ze'Auh, Nie and Djaka while on the other side Laethe, Sue'Anar and Nymlaser. The rest of the Ellym opted to stay out of this fight. The war quickly claimed countless casualties on both sides but soon the balance tipped in favor of Laethe’s side. It is said that at this point Nie tricked Ruse into believing that his world came under attack from the Djakolehn thus forcing him to join the fray. The balance changed and soon Ashion’s side begun winning and all seemed lost for Laethe and her allies.

On the side of Ashion, the mortals were led by Lyanthe D'Moor, Ashion's own daughter after coupling with a mortal man, Ilham Daven. Lyanthe like all other demigods had extraordinary powers and was acting as the general of the army. At some point, unknown exactly how, Ruse learned that Nie tricked him into entering the fight which caused him to strike out in blind rage killing her instantly. He then retired from the fight as his world came under attack by the Djinn who were mourning the loss of their creator. Amidst the confusion, Voljane, a master blacksmith created a weapon using the blood of Nie which he gave to Lyanthe. The weapon, Night's Echo, also known throughout time as Godsbane, Hopender and Breaker of Mercy, was a sword and possessed the unique ability to allow even a mortal to wound a God in combat.

Sensing an opportunity to rid themselves of their creator, seeing as their problems caused the war to start in the first place, Lyanthe devised a plan. She challenged Nymlaser to a duel, speaking to his ego and managed to kill him. Having lost all of their leaders the Djakolehn and what remained of Laethe's forces surrendered. During the celebration of their win though, Lyanthe attacked and killed her own mother, Ashion which enraged Ze'Auh. Lyanthe suffered great wounds during their fight but managed to kill him putting an end to the dominion of the Ellym. Only Ruse, Djaka and Sue'Anar remained alive with Shkr and Saray remaining out of sight and refusing to be a part of any fighting. Seeing that Ruse had problems of his own fending off attacks from the Djinn and Djaka had no armies to begin with, Sue'Anar decided to retreat to her world as well, allowing Ashion'Ellym for the first time to be governed on its own.

Confering with the Nilsir, Lyanthe and the mortals came to an arrangement. All connections between the worlds would be severed completely. The spirits of mortals who died would still end up in Djak’Ellym though, but no spirit would be allowed to contact the world of the living again. Also the remaining Ellym, Ruse, Sue’Anar and Djaka would remain in their respective worlds and would never interfere with matters of other worlds. Because the war lasted for ages though, several races from other worlds had taken a liking to Ashion'Ellym and vice versa. So before closing all portals and gateways each one was allowed to choose the world he wanted to live in. This created some odd mixtures between mortal and immortal races which remain to this day.

### THE FINAL DEMISE OF THE GODS

> What is a god to a non believer?
>
> Nathaniel Desmond Whytelaw

For a long period of time there was peace, especially in Ashion'Ellym, where the demigods, now worshipped as proper Deities and their followers thrived. A Pantheon was soon created and some of them were worshipped more than others:

* Lyanthe rose to godhood and was given several nicknames, Godslayer or Liberator. She was thought as the Goddess of Protection, Freedom and Judgement.
* Voljane was thought to be the God of Smithing, Building and Mining
* Neysa was thought to be the Goddess of Sea, Rivers and Lakes.
* Avonne was thought as the Goddess of Honor, Governance and Law.
* Askeris was thought as the God of War, Vengeance and Revenge
* The twins Shyvina and Vynisha were thought as the Goddesses of Life & Death.
* Zubair was thought as the god of Fire and Lightning.
* Leametria was thought as the Goddess of Passion and Love.
* Terrasina was thought as the Goddess of Earth, Forests and Mountains.
* Ativen was thought as the God of Truth and Justice
* Maltha was thought as the Goddess of Thieves and Luck
* Shantella was thought as the Goddess of Travel and Commerce
* Delroth was thought as the God of Magic

And the list goes on. Practically every mortal race chose to believe in different gods and deities or even to the Dragons, beings of immense power which originated from the world of Rus’Ellym. The Dragons opted to defy the wishes of their creator, Ruse and fight alongside the mortals against the Ellym even after he retreated from the war. Like the New Gods, there were some amongst the Dragons who possessed greater power:

* Edhas, The Powerful
* Faynophyrth, The Eternal Fire
* Rinado, The White One
* Churdierth, The Taker Of Life
* Noatoissu, Champion Of Dragons
* Gurrayl, The Careful
* Zaphion, The Nocturnal
* Kargin, The Mammoth
* Aestrolion, The Wise
* Jeothea, The Beautiful
* Shorgulenth, Eater Of Sheep

Like the New Gods, the Dragons possessed great power and were worshipped by the mortals even more in some cases. This soon caused friction between them. At the time, numerous race were walking on the realm but one kingdom stood above all in terms of technological advancement and growth, Aurelia. While Ashion'Ellym was prospering, Rus'Ellym was still under attack by the Djinn who had even manage to manipulate the world using magic and create new creatures, half animal half bipedal. Those new creatures confused by their sudden creation declined to choose a side in this conflict and instead looked for a way to escape this world and find their own. Ruse as a final attempt to finally end this war with the Djinn offered a truce to allow the newly created creatures to move to another world of their choosing. His plan was to persuade most of them to stay in his world and help him defeat the Djinn. When the Djinn learned of his plan they tricked everyone and opened a portal to Laeth'Ellym allowing the Djakolehn to pour into Rus'Ellym.

Ruse in his desperation sacrificed himself to close the portal before more of the Djakolehn came through. The damage was already done though and his world came under attack from two sides, the Djakolehn and the Djinn. It was only with the intervention of the Ashionis and Saray that the Djinn were forced to retreat as Ruse was dead and there was no reason for them to attack his world anymore. It was decided that the Djakolehn would be sent back to their world and a portal would be opened to Ashion'Ellym for whoever wished to pass through from Rus'Ellym as a one time offer. A big number chose to do so and the denizens of Ashion'Ellym watched in amazement packs of families driving through to their world. They were allowed to inhabit an island to the south, mainly unoccupied.

The Dragons and the Gods came to a disagreement on how to treat the newcomers. While the Gods were in favor of sending them back to where they came from, the Dragons wished for them to stay as they were refugees. The disagreement came to a head and the fight seemed inevitable. In the meantime, Sue'Anar grasped the chance and opened a portal from her world to Laeth'Ellym and from there to Ashion'Ellym. Followed by the Djakolehn who were promised to feast upon the spirits of the Aellirians she attacked first the kingdom of Aurelia. Aurelia suffered heavy losses, including their Royal Family leaving Commander of the Black Rose, Nathaniel Desmond Whytelaw in charge. He managed to halt the advance of the enemy forces while waiting for help from the Dragons and the Gods. The help came in late though and almost all of the population of Aurelia was lost. Blaming the Gods and the Dragons for this, Nathan managed to steal Godsbane and waged war against the Gods. Soon he was joined by other mortals who had become disillusioned by them as well as several Gods and Dragons who disagreed with the tactics followed by their peers, like Voljane, Askeris, Avonne, Maltha, Jeothea, Rinado and others.

As their numbers were much less, Voljane created magical living suits of armor for the mortals, the Kreth'Naal. These suits of armor provided the combatants with the strength and protection necessary to wage battle against the Gods and their minions. Nathan Whytelaw now nicknamed Duskbringer, managed to kill several deities including Lyanthe herself which caused them major concern and even forced her allies to work together with the Dragons. The war took countless lives and all of Aell was affected while in the meantime the Djakolehn and the forces of Sue'Anar continued to wreak havoc. Suggesting a truce to combat the common threat both sides focused their efforts on Aurelia and the enemies there. Soon enough they managed to push them back through the portal and a fortress was created around it to avoid anyone slipping through again. 



